So when we're in an eruption, could you give us just a few lines to remember, to apply those lines
and to re-establish the view competently?
I don't know if I can do anything more than what all the teachings really said, so say that, but of
course in samsara generally there's so many of these different ups and don'ts and all these things,
and particularly nowadays, Dzogchen at times, according to the teaching, there's so many
difficulties and challenges, one after another is happening.
But even though it's happening, I think what a great master, Master Khimpon Yingmin Putho, Khimpon
Yingmin was told to the group and to his students.
In the Tibetan world, what he said, he said, "Jensi mapro, ranso ma sharu." That's the Tibetan
world, what he said, that is really that.
"Jensi mapro" means don't disturb the mind of others. Don't disturb the mind of others.
And then, "Ranso ma sharu" means don't lose your identity. That's the two worlds that he's told to
his students.
Now I thought that's really, I think it's wonderful, wonderful. I thought, "Pose jensi mapro is not
disturbing the mind of others," means don't get upset and anger and become emotional.
Because that, if we become that, it may not help. Instead, maybe more disturb, it's more. So
therefore, he said, "Jensi mapro."
And then, don't lose your identities. Our identity is practitioners.
Our identity, we can keep with the practitioners of the bodhisattvas, bodhicitta. So therefore,
support, more patience, more loving-kindness, more praise, good praise.
That's what we can really do, and don't lose our identity of the bodhicitta and identity of the
practitioners.
That's what really he said. So I think that's really, I thought, very good, these turbulent times.
But at the same time, we're kind of repocusing and reactivating our bodhicitta as much as we can.
Really, that is, I think only we can help, because we can't do anything, big things with what's
happening in the world.
Even if it's not good, we can't do too much. And for that reason, just really do the four boneless
prayers.
And as well as, then it's kind of simple, and kind of like very, without disturbing and losing our
identity, we can help and to adjust a little bit to the way we can help others,
or to those situations that we can then excellent. But otherwise, it's just really like to build
our self, more bodhicitta, more practice, and that's, I think, really kind of, I think that.
I mean, that's what the teaching said, so that's it. Thank you.